The purpose of the meeting was to generate
community support for the resistance to the raid,
which it was very successful at doing. So,
a number of us spoke. I was on the panel as
one of the speakers, but I was terrified. It was
my first ever public speaking.
I went to The 519
thinking that I was going to see the participants
of Pussy Palace, and what I saw was, like, the
entire fucking queer community, is what it felt
like. Literally, like, standing room only, like,
squished in. This was when I became a lifelong
fan of Olivia Chow. She said, “Okay, I want
you to close your eyes. And I want you to imagine
that your name is the name. That you did all this
work to make this event happen, and you took out
the liquor license. It’s your name that’s signed
on the form. And now I want you to take out your
wallets, and I want you to give as much as you can
for the defence fund.” Like, I’m paraphrasing,
but the way she spoke was so inspiring. She
raised thousands of dollars in a matter of 10
minutes. She was like, “I’m going to start at
$2,000. Who will give me $2,000?” And hands went
up around the room. I was aghast because, to me,
$2,000 was like... [chuckles] Awful lot of money
back then. And people were just handing it over.
And she went down and down and down. I think
she was down at, like, $200, and she was going,
“Come on, guys. Just skip dinners out this month.”
And people were... I could hear people muttering,
“How much money do you spend on dinner?” [laughs]
But I used that, and when they came around to me,
I gave $50. And I couldn’t really afford
it, but what are you going to do? All right,
give til it hurts. Because there are people
who are scared right now, and they need us.
We raised so much money that night, just by one
person who was, you know, a politician, but also
really committed to the community, and knew how
to do that. Knew how to ask people for money,
and not just $5, $10, $25, but, we’re going to
need some significant cash. So, she did that.
And then, the momentum around that was that then
there were other actions.
Hundreds of people came to the meeting,
and they were extremely outraged.
They decided we were going to have an angry march
down Church Street, screaming “Out of the bars,
into the streets.” Might’ve been “Out of the bars,
into the streets,” like, “queers bash back,” or
something like that.
We emptied out of the space
and went down Church Street and then marched
to 52 Division headquarters.
Found some masking
tape and put it around people’s arms to serve
as march marshals. Phoned the media to let the
media know that it was happening. By the time
we got there, there was media there.
During the time when I was a Metro councillor, I dealt
with the police budget for 10 years and, at one time,
even served on the Police Service Board. So, on
policing matter, I have a great deal of interest
because they have enormous amount of power, and,
occasionally, they misuse it. I remember getting
phone calls and, I remember, I think they were
in front of 52 division. And I wanted to make
sure that the media know that they were there.
So, I was phoning every media outlet. This is
before emails [laughing] and text messaging. It
was old-fashioned phone call [laughs].
There's also a photograph of Ange [Beever] and I sitting
on top of the moose that was outside the police
plaza at the time. I think it was one of Mel
Lastman’s civic engagement things to have all of
these big fiberglass moose sculptures throughout
the city, and there was a cop moose. And I don’t
know exactly how it happened, but someone boosted
Ange [Beever] and I up, so we were kissing on top
of the moose wearing our bike jackets. Super cool.
And that wound up in the Toronto Sun of all places too.
I was not at The 519. But we were at the,
what was called the “Panty Raid” at 52 Division.
And that I remember so clearly. It was strong,
it was big, it was hilarious, honestly. There
were hundreds there. It was a big crowd, and
we were close together. Not tightly squished,
but it was just the feeling of being close with
a whole bunch of people and being in a common
purpose. We didn’t know if they’d try to push
us back. They were completely stand down. So,
even though there was anger, that wasn’t...
It was kind of, like, “You took us on; here
we are.” Incredibly celebratory. People were using
that moment to assert the irony of the situation,
and, you know, really shaming the police into
trying to have some reasonable explanation for
what they had done. But I just remember that as
being something that, kind of, pulled back some
power for us in that moment. Very public, almost
mainstream acknowledgement of women’s sexuality,
really, kind of, queer and otherwise. It felt
like a very strong public moment for that.